

Flavor
Definition: Pieces of flavor are just short descriptions of anything a character knows, owns, has, or is. A character’s flavor will eventually form a laundry list of eclectic details on their character sheet. Ultimately you make a character interesting but flavor can help you keep track of why that is. Sometimes flavor can even change the outcome of a skill check.
Earning Flavor: To get new flavor during the story it must be earned with in game actions. Getting attacked by a jungle cat might lead to a scary but recognizable facial scar. Wanton killing and stealing might earn you a reputation as a murder-hobo. Marrying a space princess might leave you owning half a planet. Yanking a sword out of a stone might get you a neat sword and a less neat curse.
Mechanical Effect: Whenever a character makes a skill check they can check to see if they have any flavor that would make the roll easier or harder. These bonuses stack and will change the difficulty of the skill check. Occasionally flavor comes up that warrants a difficulty change of greater than one. The usual logic is that if a sword gives +1 then a magic sword of flaming should give more than that. A bonus of +2 seems obvious. I recommend being stingy handing out +2’s and +3’s but ultimately that’s up to you.
Don’t describe skills: The primary purpose of flavor is to make characters more interesting, not give bonuses to skills. Therefore, flavor should not describe a skill a character has because it is an obvious attempt to give a skill a permanent +1 rather actually adding anything to the character. A character should not have the skill “disguise” and the flavor “master of disguise”.
Types: At the time of writing this I can think of four major categories of flavor: Possessions, social status, intrinsic characteristics, and knowledge. There can be a bunch of overlap between these. Being “king” is social status in addition to getting you a bunch of possessions and knowledge.
Items: Items are the physical things a character carries around with them or has easy access to. They give a +1 bonus to appropriate skill checks. Thieves tools give a +1 to “lock picking” skill checks.
Money: I have never seen money handled well in a role-playing system and I haven’t thought of an effective way to do it myself. Money in this system is an item and therefore a piece of flavor. If you feel like keeping an exact count attach a number to that flavor.
Crafting: Often players will want to make their own gear out of materials you give them. Use the magnitude of success of their crafting skill checks to roughly determine the quality of the item they make. If a character is trying to craft with sub-par tools, materials, or working conditions remember to give them an appropriately sized negative modifier. The inverse is true of above average tools, materials, and working conditions. Magnitude of success has no direct bearing on the modifier an item will grant to future checks; that defaults to 1. Instead, for a crafted item, magnitude of success dictates how much you could sell it for, it’s aesthetics, how likely it is to break or require maintenance, whether it is magic, and any number of other things. 
Loot: Randomly generating loot in this system doesn’t really work. You can use dice but the numbers don’t mean anything because items should only ever give a +1 and rarely a +2 or +3. I would suggest rather than using random loot generation you hand out loot based on who needs it. If a player-character isn’t working well and you notice that player losing interest start throwing interesting items at them.
Social status:
Intrinsic characteristics:
Knowledge:
Examples: SHOULD THIS EVEN BE HERE? THERE ARE A FEW EXAMPLES IN THE CHARACTER CREATION SECTION, RIGHT? These are some examples of flavor. Some are normal, some are special, some are bad. Captain of the guard. Beautiful singing voice. Strong. Wise. Recognizable facial scar. Pathological liar. Sociopath. Owns a horse. Is liked by horses. Centaur. Gambling problem. Charming. Attractive. Fast. Knowledgeable. Lord of a castle. Friends in high places. Rich. Night vision. Night vision goggles. Owns a spaceship. Carries a spear and club. Leper. Reputation for beating priests. Kind. King’s advisor. Drug dealer. Librarian. Has many rare books. Orc. Insane. Insomniac. Carnivorous. Extra limbs. Amputee. Crippled. Talks to plants. Plants talk to me. Holy. Incorporeal. Haunted by past crimes. Haunted by angry ghosts. Has a compass. Stubborn. Magically adept. Bloodthirsty. Good manners. Boxing world champion. Dropped out of medical school. Cult leader. Shift manager at a fast food joint. Famous space pirate. Infertile. Has many decks of cards. Knows Spanish. Is Spanish. Can play the flute. Religious. Sneaky. Large. Fat. Boring. Knows the location of buried treasure. Student at Yale. Responsible for a princeling. Young and stupid. Evil. Charitable.


MIGRATED FORM THE POWER MISMATCH SECTION
Knowledge: characters that know everything are stupid. PC’s cant know everything or all your time is spend telling that one character shit. NPCs cant know everything or the game becomes un-fun because the villain knew you  were going to do that every fucking time.
Crafting: when characters want to craft gear meaningfully above their paygrade so what? If your warrior wants a lightsaber give him a +2 lightsaber that ignores armor. Its not that big a deal. THIS APPLIES TO TAKING ITEMS WAY ABOVE YOUR PAYGRADE AT CC TOO.

