Combat
Turn order: The character starting the fight takes the first turn of combat. Play proceeds clockwise around the table. All the NPCs act on the storyteller’s turn.
Teamwork: Players can take their turns together to accomplish more than they could individually but be warned, if any player fails at their part of a group action the whole thing could fail. Choose one of the participating players. All other participating players take their turns on that player’s turn instead of their own.
Turns: Each character gets one main action and one defensive action on their turn. Main actions can only be used when it is your turn. Defensive actions can only be used to defend against another character’s main action and therefore only when it is not your turn. I SERIOUSLY DOUBT THIS IS CLEAR. DESCRIBE WHAT KINDS OF ACTIONS THESE ARE. NEED EXAMPLES AND PROCESS.
Defensive Actions: Defensive actions must attempt to accomplish something defensive for you or an ally. Dodging out of the way, blocking an incoming attack, or counterattacking to neutralize an attack are all viable defensive actions. All characters get one defensive action per turn. It refreshes on their turn. Defensive actions must be made after the attack is declared but before it is rolled.
Damage: To inflict damage you need to attack other characters. Make a skill check for one of your skills capable of being used as an attack. The magnitude of success is your damage to that character.
Wounds: To keep a character from dying you can buy bad flavor from the storyteller with damage. This flavor varies in severity but generally takes the form of cuts, broken bones, and severed limbs. The storyteller creates both the wound flavor and its price in damage but it is up to the players to buy them.
Death: Characters die when they accumulate 10 points of damage. Buy wounds to prevent this from happening. POSSIBLY COMBINE DAMAGE, WOUNDS, AND DEATH.
Common Modifiers: These are modifiers commonly applied to combat skill checks be they attacks, defensive actions or anything else. Armor, weapons, high ground, numbers, weapon range, wounds, and anything else in this vein.
In the case of weaponry, it is fairly obvious that a sword is better than a dagger because it has more reach. In this system, both give a +1 bonus to attack rolls. If a character with a spear faces off against a character with a sword both get a +1 and then the range difference becomes a situational modifier of 1.

MIGRATED FROM POWER MISMATCH SECTION
Speed: Things that are too fast to interact with like electricity, explosions, The Flash, and bullets are simply that. If someone tries to dodge a bullet they can’t. If someone tries to block an explosion they can’t. If someone tries to hit the flash they can’t. Be careful of allowing characters into your game that are too fast to interact with meaningfully as they can be frustrating to deal with. CAN YOU IMAGINE BEING LUX LUTHOR IN THE GOLDEN AGE OF SUPERMAN? THAT WOULD HAVE SUCKED ASS.
Size: Some things are just too big to be a fair fight. Dragons, spaceships, and mobs are all simply too big to handle as an individual. For the average person, these things are all nigh invulnerable and extremely deadly. In these scenarios the dragon, spaceship, or mob probably just wins. If you don’t want the encounter to go that way then you should assign appropriate situational modifiers. Facing down a small formation of spearmen with a sword might warrant a modifier of 6 in the groups favor for all rolls. THIS NEEDS TO BE REVISED A BIT. ALSO I DON’T THINK THE OPTIONS I GIVE HERE ARE GREAT. POSSIBLY REPRESENT THIS WITH DIFFERENT DAMAGE THRESHOLDS I.E. MAX HEALTH.
Armor: A suit plate mail was the golden standard in medieval armor. Even so a crossbow bolt could still pierce it. If they existed, mythical weapons like lightsabers would be able to sheer straight through it. Conveniently checks only take relevant flavor into account. Armor cannot hinder attacks with weapons that are either dramatically more powerful or specifically designed to deal with said armor and as such that armor does not give a penalty to attack skill checks made against it. THIS IS A LITTLE VERBOSE.
Figuring out the modifiers for combat can be tricky. For example if a guy in full plate and a sword faces off against a naked guy with a knife it is basically impossibly for the naked guy to injure the guy in the armor. This might be represented with a very large penalty like a +5. If you gave him a sword as well it might drop it down to a +4. If you gave him the same armor an weapon the combatants would be balanced in that they should each have the same level of difficulty hitting eachother. About +2 I would think.
God this feels really arbitrary. I suppose I should make a table that helps ST’s pick out mods for mismatched tasks.
Naked. Range. Armor. No weapon. Unfavorable terrain.
Propose a checklist of common combat mods to give either +1, +0, or -1.
Faster? Stronger? More rested? More endurance? Are those the same thing? Surprise? Mental and moral issues. Wounds. 
