Persuasion
Definition: Most skills that allow a character to use words to get other characters to do stuff are persuasion skills. Some examples are “intimidation”, “bartering”, “seduction”, “leadership”, “hypnotism”, “mind control”, and “salesmanship”. Notably, I classify “lying” as an information hiding skill, similar to “sneaking”, rather than as a persuasion skill.
Checks: Perception skills work the same as normal in that you declare what you are trying to accomplish, roll a check, and then it happens or doesn’t. “I want to charm the barmaid into sleeping with me”, rolls 2d6, gets a 12, “sorry man, she’s a lesbian”.
Modifiers: Whenever a persuasion attempt is made to make a character do something they don’t want to do or wouldn’t normally do you need to up the difficulty. For example, asking random people on the street to go burn down your ex’s house or kill themselves will likely never work. This is represented by an extremely high modifier on the roll. Increasing the difficulty by 10 or 15 is pretty reasonable in a situation like that. This is one of the few places where modifiers can and should vary this wildly.
Resisting: Like most skills that effect other characters, persuasion skills can be resisted with an opposed check. Often characters will not have an appropriate skill to resist with. The default skill for resisting the influence of other characters is “willpower”. Other skills can be used however. A “perception” check to look for flaws on an item a character is selling is a reasonable way to oppose that character’s barter check. Skills taken after character creation begin with a starting level of 2d6.
Warning: In combat skills like “mind control” function can effectively one-hit-knock-out characters every turn at high levels. If this is a problem just add limitations to the skill until it isn’t. Mind control might be limited by how many people you can control at once, a duration in turns, not working during day or anything else you can think of.
Lying: To convince another character to do something using a lie you must make a “lying” check to see if your information is believable in addition to the “persuasion” check. Both checks can be opposed. Even though “lying” can indirectly get characters to do stuff it is an information hiding skill, not a persuasion skill. Anything similar falls under the same umbrella. See the information section for more details. This is semantic but possibly useful as a classification. SOME OF THIS SHOULD PROBABLY BE REMOVED.





MIGRATED FROM THE POWER MISMATCH SECTION
Persuasion: So how does power mismatch work here? I guess one character is persuasive as fuck and other characters just become that character’s slaves? That’s kinda BS. What about mind control. That’s even justifiable but it still ruins a story real good. This is one of those times when limitations need to be put on skills. that’s really one of the only ways to handle it.
Willpower: I have no idea what a battle of wills would even look like. Would that be to thaumaturges duking it out in an opposed check? That sounds like a size issue if its not a fair fight. Otherwise I can see characters that it is impossible to convince of anything to being really obnoxious. (jack, frank, most of ryan’s characters). I think what this boils down to is that each character has a few things that they are immovable on.

