The role-playing system of Harley Dutton. Please suggest names.
Don’t give this document to players; they will make characters based on the system rather than the story.
“A Semblance of Order”
Purpose
This RP (Role Playing) System is designed for those who have never played a Table-Top RPG (Role Playing Game). I have tried to make it as simple as possible so you can get to the fun stuff quickly.
I once played this game with my cousins in the back seat of a car for three hours out of the four-hour drive home. Let me emphasize that it only took them an hour to learn the system having never played a game like this before. To those of you unfamiliar with Dungeons and Dragons, Shadowrun, or GURPS it usually takes the entire first session (typically three to six hours) to create characters.

Required Materials
Pencil and paper, 3d6 (three six-sided dice), this document for reference, three to six humans, a table that seats everyone, a place everyone can meet, and a regular meeting time that is longer than three hours. You do not need a battle-grid or figurines but you can choose to use them if you wish. You will need to figure out distances for movement and ranged combat.
Rather than a battle-grid I would suggest a loose sketch using zones like rooms and hallways or “what you can see from the top of that hill”. Battle-grids typically slow down combat in my experience. Players will zone out if they only get a minute long turn every ten minutes. Whatever you decide to use I suggest having everything ready to go from the first session. RPG groups are fragile things and typically disband within a week or two if they are lacking too many of these things. Many of my early attempts to get an RPG group going failed because of scheduling.

Warning to Storytellers
This system is easy for novice players to learn and play. Storytellers however should have foresight, experience storytelling, or both. Players can ruin a story very quickly in this system if you don’t have the heart to kill their characters or tell them “no” occasionally.
When I was still a novice storyteller I made a world in which magic was feared and persecuted. This was also a medieval world in which information traveled slowly and accurate, long-range weapons did not exist. In the spirit of the system I was building I let my players be whatever they wanted to be. I got one fire-breathing barbarian robot and a winged fellow versed in light magic—that means laser beams. They burned down every inn and terrorized every village. The world I had made had nothing to fight them and the story quickly devolved. Being more experienced now I would have just added something to the world that could combat them or taken away the things that allowed them to be such tyrants, preferably the former as the latter is the antithesis of fun. If you are a novice storyteller and insist on tempting fate I have written down some tips for you near the end.

Attributes. Figure out how to condense this section. I dislike the space produced by the line breaks.
Attributes are numbers that represent how good or bad your character is at something. These are the ones used in my system. These go from level 0 to level 9.
STR(strength) contributes to hitting, lifting or dragging stuff and HP.
DEX(dexterity) is hand-eye coordination and speed. Good for shooting and acrobatics and the like.
STAM(stamina) contributes to HP. Represents lung capacity as it pertains to physical labor.
CHA(charisma) how adept the character is in social situations like intimidation, lying, or persuasion.
PERC(perception) is how well you see and hear, sense magic stuff, and understand social situations.
INT(intelligence) is how fast you learn, how well you remember, and how much you know.
WITS(wits) this is how fast you think in high stress situations like combat or talking to hot chicks.
WILL(willpower) contributes to HP, MP, resisting torture, sustaining spells, faith, and stubbornness.
HP(health) has a max and current value. If it hits zero, the character dies. Max HP = STR+STAM+WILL
MP(mana) has a max and current value. Used for casting spells. Max MP = STAM+WILL+CHA
REF(reflexes) used for initiative. REF = (DEX+WITS)/2 rounded down.
I had a devil of a time naming some of these. Stamina or endurance? Dexterity or reflexes? Perception, Awareness, or Observation? Willpower or resolve? “The difference between the almost right word and the right word is really a large matter. ’tis the difference between the lightning bug and the lightning.”—Mark Twain. That said, if you think a name fits better, use it; I can’t stop you.

Practical Skills
Practical skills are what they sound like. For instance, in modern society reading, writing, speaking, lying, persuasion, driving, and simple mathematics would be some examples of practical skills. Everyone knows these things exist, and can learn them as they go. All characters have level 1 (really level 0 but as soom as you write it on your sheet you have 0fails and 0successes so it levels up) in every practical skill. These can be leveled up and are used for rolling skill checks. Practical skills have at least one attribute associated with them. Acrobatics[DEX] uses dexterity if you’re trying to jump and flip around, and then after it is established you can do that you should use Acrobatics[STAM] to keep doing it for a “long” period of a minute or two. Just pick the Attribute(s) that go with the practical skills I haven’t listed. Non-specific practical skills are a good thing and lead to interesting characters. A character might know “knots” because they know the skill “sailing” and that’s fine even though the character is getting a lot of skills for free under the umbrella-skill of “sailing”. These go from level 1 to level 9 and I will be covering leveling up later.
There will be an extensive list of practical skills near the end to assist with character creation. Players tend to forget to put points into practical skills and end up with the skillset of a six-year-old. It can be a good idea to force players to take certain skills like a common language. It is assumed all characters have mastered truly basic skills like walking.
 
Special Powers
Special powers are the unique things your character can try to do intentionally. Specific types of magic, the force, weather sense, and talking to plants would all be examples of special powers. Special powers can only be learned if someone or something teaches the character. This means characters cannot level up or use special powers they don’t know. Decide what attribute(s) a special power is going to use when it is created. These should be broad enough to be useful and narrow enough they don’t easily overlap. “Magic” is too broad, “the ability to shoot fireballs” is something you could take if you’re playing an unimaginative character, but “fire magic” has much more subtlety and is the intended scope for special powers. These go from level 0 to level 9 and I will cover leveling up later.
Special powers are where players can do the most damage to the story and as storyteller you must be willing to say “no, you can’t kill anyone you want by squishing their brain with telekinesis”. Sometimes it is hard to decide whether something is a practical skill, special power, or trait; the storyteller has final say, especially with regards to any numbers attached to the power.

Traits. Passives Abilities. Find a better name for these. Backgrounds? Backstory? History? Innate abilities? I don’t want to call them abilities. it seems wrong.
These are things unique to your character in some way. Notably, traits cannot be taught, but they can be acquired through role-playing. Good examples of traits include identifiable facial scars, breathing underwater, homeliness, a charming personality, eidetic memory, bad luck, hating sailors, drug addiction, noble birth, or the distrust of a powerful faction in the story. Traits should avoid numbers and dice whenever possible as they are role-playing flavor and not stat boosts. If a player ever says “I try to activate my extra-sensory-perception” that’s not a trait, it’s a special power. Passives a character wasn’t born with should also have some history associated with them—it builds character! There isn’t a system for leveling up traits. You will just have to role-play that.
Be careful with what you allow your players to do with this. Anything that heavily effects combat is probably a bad idea. That said things that effect combat in a minor way like night vision boost to ambush checks shouldn’t be a problem. A general damage immunity like metal skin is an extremely bad idea though.

Rolling Checks reword this shit till its not confusing.
Whenever a character’s ability to perform an action is in question the dice need to come out. Roll 3d6 and compare the combined attribute and skill value for the action to the total on the dice. If the dice are higher the action fails. If the dice are lower it succeeds. Low rolls are better for checks. An example might look like this: Krunk, the ogre wants to hit the left goblin with his axe. Krunk rolls 3d6. It comes out to 12. Krunk has 7 DEX and 6 in the practical skill “melee (with axes) [DEX]”. This means he hits the goblin because 7+6 > 12. Now Krunk is happy because he gets to roll for damage.
Some of you may recognize this as the GURPS system for rolling skill checks. I chose this system for rolling checks because the distribution curve is non-linear and it uses six-sided dice. I wanted it to use d6s so you wouldn’t have to go to a special store for special dice. Instead you can steal the dice out of your other board games. I tried to make rolling checks fast by avoiding contested rolls or roll difficulties that vary based on information a human might have to ask a different human for.

Character Creation
Characters start with [40] points they can put into the 8 base attributes and [60] points they can put into practical skills, and [10] points they can put into special powers they make. A character gets one “good” trait, one “bad” trait, and one special power. Players can take an extra “bad” trait to get an extra “good” trait OR another special power. They are still limited to 10 special power points though. Remember special powers start at level 0. Figure out your character’s mixed stats (HP, MANA,energy) and make items for the character and you’re done. Decide your own starting wealth and item restrictions.

Leveling Up
Practical skills, special powers, and items can all level up. Items level up when you pay someone to upgrade your item or do it yourself or the storyteller says so. Practical skills and special powers level up when you use them. You need to accumulate as many successes and failures using the skill as the skill’s level. Level 2 fire magic levels up when you fail to use it twice and succeed at using it twice. Then the successes and failures reset to zero. If you accumulate more successes or failures than the level of the skill they done mean anything and you don’t have to record them. Otherwise successes and failures should be recorded. This can easily be done in one line on a piece of notebook paper. Attributes don’t level up. Traits don’t level up. If you have a similar skill that is a higher level but similar to the one you used you get double experience for the skill you just used. Same if youre int is higher level than the skill. You get triple experience if both are true.

Items
Items are numbers with description attached. There is no functional difference between two level 5 swords in this system except storytelling. Maybe one of them can cut the wind while the other glows blue when orcs are near. In any event I recommend making items by rolling 3d6 and dividing by 2 rounded down. This puts a curve on the rarity of loot. Useful when you have a bloodthirsty lot intent on killing NPCs. I recommend money also work similarly to this: 1=penny, 2=nickel, 3=dime, 4=quarter, 5=dollar, 6=$5, 7=$10, 8=$20, 9=$100. Note this is not and should not be a linear scale; the actual values or currency don’t matter at all. A level 7 item should probably cost about $10 by this scale. No one really wants to buy your level 2 shovel. Well, maybe a child. to upgrade an item it should probably cost a bit over the difference in levels. If a player wants to craft a better item materials and tools are a factor. Materials cost money and if you don’t have a forge and anvil you cant do a whole lot of metalworking.

Chase scenes 1.0
Im thinking some (non) random way to pick a distance between the hunter(s) and the prey(s). maybe a die or dice rolled at the beginning of a scene. A hunter can only chase one group of prey at a time. Groups can be size 1, prey running in different directions arent a group. A prey can be chased by multiple hunters.
Actions taken should be able to influence distance by more than one. Im thinking for a normal action (just running) gets you 1 distance in the direction you want on success and no change on fail. A gambit like knocking over some barrels into the path of your pursuer (should this be more difficult?) might result in a change of 3 distance in the direction you want on success and 1 in the opposite direction on fail. The numbers still need to be tweaked. Basically you have the choice of high risk, high reward or low risk, low reward. (note to self: incentivize HR,HR because it makes for more interesting chase scenes and gambling I fun)
The distance between hunter and prey corresponds to the number of move actions if they were to enter combat. Mixing stealth, combat, and chasing is tricky and im going to let the flexibility of the system(you) handle it rather than writing 4 more sections. Give initiative penalties and bonuses as you see fit.
For high stress situations (combat and chases) there should be an energy bar (stam+something?) to determine how many actions you can do before you need to rest. Bar compltely refills when the scene ends. Each action requires one point. Limits high stress situations that arent ending because the contestants are too well matched.
Instead of using a simple turn order lets try using the shadowrun initiative system for this. High dex characters are faster and will get more turns. this is how things should be.

Stealth—pretty simple really
Use stealth[dex] or something like it to avoid detection. Detectors use ambush[per] or something like it to detect them. Try to avoid contested rolls if at all possible. Don’t roll roll stealth for enemies. They are just stealthed. It’s the players job to see them. 

Combat—find a way to naturally integrate movement into combat.
Every round of combat roll 1d6 for each character and add it to that character’s REF(reflexes). That is that character’s initiative for that round of combat. At the end of each round of combat subtract 10 from each character’s initiative. Stealthing during a combat gives +10 to the next round, stealthing into combat gives +10 to the first round. Penalties and bonuses can be applied at storyteller discretion for things like being prone(I suggest -5). A full turn consists of a move action, an action for each hand, and a mental action. Talking is free but it is constrained by time. Turns last somewhere between 5 and 10 seconds. You can also use a full action to run or dodge. Speaking of defensive actions they slow down combat and I have discouraged their use. Dodging takes a full turn and at storyteller discretion you are prone, but on the upside you get to use your move action when you do it. Blocking with a shield just requires one of your hand actions for a turn. You can choose to wait with any of your actions until the round of initiative is over. At the end of a round of initiative each player looses any actions they have and 10 initiative. Once all initiatives are negative begin a new round by rolling initiative.
Melee tohit = Melee[dex] vs 3d6
Melee (1H)one-hand damage = 1d6+weapon+STR
Melee 2H(2hand) damage = 2d6+weapon+str
Ranged tohit = Ranged[dex] vs 3d6
Ranged 1h damage = 1d6+weapon+dex
Ranged 2h dmage = 2d6+weapon+dex  (if it makes more sense to use strength, like for thrown rocks, do so)
Magic takes many forms. Use the special power in question plus an appropriate attribute for toHit
These don’t always do damage. When they do use some combination of dice, attribute, item, and skill added together. Try not to make it too complicated. Magic can also be used to buff other combat actions perhaps adding dice to them. I recommend restrictions on magic like a mana cost (this is the only reason the mana exists) to balance it out. Other restrictions could be that the magic is slow and can only be performed outside of combat. Another restriction I am fond of is making a magic require touch. That is to say you have to successfully touch the person you want to effect to do the magic.
 Avoiding damage should come at a fairly steep penalty. Maybe a character can dodge but if they are wearing heavy armor they have to dive and go prone. Maybe they just cant dodge while wearing heavy armor. I usually require a full action for a dodge. If a character doesn’t have an action later in the initiative they can consume to dodge, then they just don’t have the time to dodge. Usually I have parrys and blocks take just one hand action. Both are very skill dependant. Maybe parry[dex].
armor soaks damage linearly. That is to say if someone takes damage subtract their armor from the incoming damage then they take that damage.


Social interactions
If you don’t want to roleplay these or a character’s ability to do something is in dispute you can roll some dice. (as usual)
Common rolls like haggle[cha], seduce[cha], or intimidate[cha] can be overidden by the story teller. Storytellers, don’t do this unless the npc in question has a reason to not be persuaded, seduced, or intimidated. Maybe the npc is well traveled and knows the stuff youre trying to sell him is not in fact genuine vintish wine. Maybe she’s just not that into you. The thugs arent intimidated because youre shaking in your boots and his friend is standing behind you. Regardless, if a social roll doesn’t work there should be a reason it didn’t work.
There needs to be a mental defence against mind control and hypnotisim and such. I think a “mental dodge could work. Maybe stubbornness[will]? Seems a bit silly. Maybe int+will? I don’t want to do an increase in difficulty b/c that takes longer in game. Maybe a mental health bar like niel was suggersting? Mental armor? This is getting complicated.



